Add GCP marketplace instructions (#574)
qdrant/landing_page: qdrant-landing/content/documentation/cloud/gcp-marketplace.md

---
title: GCP Marketplace
weight: 60
---

# Qdrant Cloud on GCP Marketplace

Our [GCP Marketplace](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/qdrant-public/qdrant)
listing streamlines access to Qdrant for users who rely on the Google Cloud Platform for
hosting and application development. While Qdrant's clusters run on GCP, you are using the
Qdrant Cloud infrastructure. 

## Billing

You don't need a credit card to sign up for Qdrant Cloud. Instead, all billing is processed

> through the GDP Marketplace. The usage of Qdrant is added to your existing billing for GCP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
through the GCP Marketplace. The usage of Qdrant is added to your existing billing for GCP
```

services.

> The payment is made through your GCP Account. Our [Billing Calculator](https://cloud.qdrant.io/calculator) can give you a better idea about costs.

Author: ```suggestion
The payment is made through your GCP Account. Our [Billing Calculator](https://cloud.qdrant.io/calculator)
can provide more information about costs.

As of this writing, GCP costs are based only on usage. 
```

> ## How to subscribe

Reviewer: Please add a note somewhere, mentioning that creating the subscription itself, does not cause any costs. Costs are purely usage-based and a daily overview is accessible in the accounts billing section.

Author: I've added a cautious sentence just above `## How to subscribe`.... cautious, just in case Google changes their policies in the future.

Reviewer: That is the marketplace integration we chose in every marketplace. 

- At GCP this is called [Usage Based](https://cloud.google.com/marketplace/docs/understanding-billing#services-pricing)
- AWS calls it [Metered Usage](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/marketplace/latest/userguide/metering-for-usage.html)
- Azure also calls it [Metered Billing](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/partner-center/marketplace/azure-app-metered-billing)

That is not something I see as a matter of change. What _could_ be a matter of change is the share we need to give for the billing, which a cloud provider does for us. But that will most likely not affect the condition, in which a customer and its subscription is. 

Therefore, please feel free to make this more apparent. Since this is also not clear to customers one time or the other.

Reviewer: > As of this writing

is misleading IMO and should not be said.

Author: Thanks for the links to our marketplace integrations. I've updated to point the reader to those links.

I'll leave the discussion of "As of this writing" until a later time. (I don't like using it, but now that you've pointed me to the docs that we use from our supported Cloud providers, we can point to them.)

Author: Thanks @pansen ! 

I think I've addressed your first two points at the end of the `## Billing` section:

```
Costs from cloud providers are based on usage. You can subscribe to Qdrant on
the GCP Marketplace without paying more.
```

I did not include your 3rd point because:
- You marked that as optional
- For me, it's a "best practice" to minimize the number of screenshots

---
title: GCP Marketplace
weight: 60
---

# Qdrant Cloud on GCP Marketplace

Our [GCP Marketplace](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/qdrant-public/qdrant)
listing streamlines access to Qdrant for users who rely on the Google Cloud Platform for
hosting and application development. While Qdrant's clusters run on GCP, you are using the
Qdrant Cloud infrastructure. 

## Billing

You don't need a credit card to sign up for Qdrant Cloud. Instead, all billing is processed
through the GCP Marketplace. The usage of Qdrant is added to your existing billing for GCP
services.

The payment is made through your GCP Account. Our [Billing Calculator](https://cloud.qdrant.io/calculator)
can provide more information about costs.

> As of this writing, GCP costs are based only on usage. 

Author: ```suggestion
As of this writing, costs from cloud providers are based on usage. For more information, see the following:

- [GCP Pricing plans for SaaS products](https://cloud.google.com/marketplace/docs/understanding-billing#services-pricing)
- [AWS Metering for usage](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/marketplace/latest/userguide/metering-for-usage.html)
- [Microsoft Managed application metered biling](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/partner-center/marketplace/azure-app-metered-billing)
```
